**[Carbon Footprint Tracker]{.underline}**

**Overview**

The Carbon Footprint Tracker is a mobile app that helps users track
their daily carbon emissions and take action to reduce their impact on
the environment. The app allows users to log their daily activities such
as transportation, energy use, and food consumption, and calculates
their carbon footprint based on industry-standard emissions data.

**Features**

The app will include the following features:

-   **Sign up/Login:** Users can create a new account or log in using their existing credentials.

-   **Carbon Emissions Tracker:** Users can track their daily carbon emissions in real-time and view their progress over time.

-   **Action Logging:** Users can log their actions to reduce carbon emissions, such as walking or biking instead of driving or using energy-efficient appliances.

-   **Personal Dashboard:** Users can view their carbon emissions reduction goals, achievements, and awards on a personalized dashboard.

-   **Social Sharing:** Users can share their achievements with friends and family on social media platforms.

-   **News Feed:** The app will feature a news feed with environmental news and events.

**Design**

The app will have a clean and modern design with a focus on user
experience. The color scheme will be focused around shades of blue and
green, and will be made more accessible by using tools like colorblind
simulators to identify appropriate contrast levels. Moreover, the app
will use icons and illustrations to convey information and make the user
interface more engaging.

**Technologies**

The application will be developed for Android platforms using React
Native or Jetpack Compose. The app will also use Firebase, a cloud-based
platform for mobile and web app development, to store user data and
facilitate social sharing.

**Team**

The Carbon Footprint tracker will be developed by a team of two software
developers, Hamza Ahmad and Shaheen Amir, currently studying at Forman
Christian College (A Chartered University) and acquiring expertise in
mobile app development. The developers will ensure coordination among
each other by employing agile development methodologies, setting up
version control using Git, and regularly communicating across common
social media platforms.

**Timeline**

The project is estimated to take approximately a month to complete. The
development team will work on the project part-time and will deliver the
final product in accordance with the deadlines provided.
